[Music]
hey here's a fun fact to tell your
family around the dinner table there are
about 3 million shipwrecks and oceans
all over the world
ok don't lead with that one but hey not
only that certain airlines show their
location on the in-flight map now that
seems a little odd so why would they do
it well for starters it keeps boredom at
bay if you've ever flown transatlantic
or Pacific
you know that feeling you're five hours
in you've already washed as many movies
as you can stand can't sleep and bored
out of your mind you try to fight the
urge because you know it only makes the
time go that much slower but you cave in
and decide to check the flight map
nothing but endless ocean on the screen
if you can look at some famous
shipwrecks then at least it's something
and while you're entertaining yourself
remember that it's also educational in
other words this stuff is a part of
history I mean look at the Titanic it's
probably the most well known shipwreck
of all time people are still finding new
evidence and theories about what sank
the Titan of the sea over a century ago
as it turns out the Titanic isn't alone
out there since nearly a quarter of all
sunken shipwrecks are in the North
Atlantic Ocean besides the locations and
names of these ships the year they sank
is also included the Titanic went down
in 1912
a fact that will easily be ingrained in
your mind if you look at it on a screen
long enough simply because we have the
tech to do it well some passengers
reportedly feel uneasy seeing the
location of different wrecked vessels
rather than focus on the bad it might be
helpful to give thanks for modern
technology we no longer have to sail the
high seas for months at a time to cross
the ocean we can quickly check the
progress of our flights using a
touchscreen and get a history lesson all
at once
[Music]
it's important first we should always
remember these events because they
affected so many lives and likely
changed the course of history did you
know that us steel tycoon JP Morgan was
supposed to be on the Titanic him along
with famous chocolatier Milton Hershey
radio communication inventor Marconi
they're just some of the big name
changers we could have lost plus some
ships not only have historical value but
ecological importance too if a vessel is
under the water long enough to turn into
a reef the area can become rich with
biodiversity thus warranting protection
it's just the start if you're a frequent
international flyer then you may be
thinking I've stared at plenty of
in-flight maps and I've never seen any
shipwrecks on there yes this practice is
becoming less and less common probably
because despite the reasons I've given
passengers just don't want to be
reminded of travel disasters even
century-old maritime ones because well
obviously for what it's worth they are
moving away from shipwrecks and planning
to include more natural sights to check
out underwater volcanoes trenches
tectonic plates I only see endless
educational possibilities on that note
let's take a look at some famous and
valuable shipwrecks you might have a
chance to peek at from 35,000 feet up
the Belitung shipwreck belitung island
lies in Indonesia and a fisherman
happened to stumble upon this gold model
crystals
sapphires and rubies the typical
treasures that would make anyone's
eyeballs turn into dollar signs not only
that this ship went down in history for
carrying the most massive gold cup ever
discovered the total value 80 million
dollars SS Central America this vessel
was also known as the ship of gold and
rightfully so it carried 15 tons of the
stuff
it sank near the coast of the Carolinas
because of a hurricane in 1857 but it
wasn't found until nineteen
all this recovered gold was valued
between 100 and 150 million dollars and
get this 92% was given to the team that
discovered it Congrats to Ohio's
Columbus American discovery group and
you think you guys can spot me a few
bucks
the Antikythera treasures the first ever
sunken ship expedition on record was
found by Greek divers in 1900 it was
filled with glass pottery and statues
but the most significant discovery was
made in 1976 when they realized the ship
also carried the world's first analog
computer scientists are still scratching
their heads over the Antikythera machine
its value rounds out to somewhere
between 120 to 160 million dollars the
Titanic many of the passengers on board
the Titanic were incredibly wealthy
people the collection of gold silver
diamonds and pricy artifacts and carried
surpasses the 300 million dollar mark so
what happens with these items when
they're found many of them are on
display at museums all over the world
but others have been auctioned to
private buyers the most recent auctions
took place in 2012 and 2015
bringing in 189 million dollars but it's
still not at the top of this list the
wideout galley with a value counting in
at a whopping 400 million dollars this
ship was actually captured by a pirate
does the name Black Sam Bellamy ring a
bell refresher he was one of the richest
pirates that ever lived it sank in 1717
but wasn't discovered until 1984
precious artifacts are still being
recovered and they include jewelry
cannons and coins
nuestra senora de Atocha the Atocha went
down off the coast of the Florida Keys
in 1622 when she was discovered in 1985
she had tons of Muzo emeralds the best
in the world
jewels silver and gold her weight didn't
help her sailing cause it reportedly
took a couple of months to load
everything onto the ship before
departure 75% of the documented 450
million dollar value was awarded to the
person who found it the sell combi
shipwreck one of the most recent
discoveries happened in 2010 and the
total value is still being assessed
believed to have sunk between 890 and
1120 seee the ship's historical
importance far outweighs its jewels this
alchemy is proof that trade occurred
between Britain and Europe during this
time the uluburun shipwreck and now one
of the oldest shipwrecks this one
occurred off the southwestern coast of
Turkey around the 14th century BCE but
it was discovered in 1982 divers found a
variety of riches including jewels
silver gold and other trade items they
were all extracted over ten years and
the goods equals 17 tonnes in weight the
value well again what it means for the
preservation and better understanding of
history is priceless
ok I could go on forever so I'll let you
finish the list down in the comments do
you know any other famous shipwrecks
tell me all about them we still wouldn't
be able to touch all the shipwrecks out
there because only 1% of them have been
explored now why is that well for one
there's a lack of time and resources to
explore most of them and that's a real
problem
since the longer ships remain underwater
the more likely they are to deteriorate
NOAA or the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration has checked
out only 10% of the shipwrecks within
the perimeter of their 14 national
marine sanctuaries they're located all
along the coast of the continental US
Hawaii
American Samoa these particular spots
are preserved and when they find ships
the group assesses how they can affect
the surrounding areas ecology and here's
an interesting tidbit most shipwrecks
are located near coasts at the openings
of ports and harbors it's kind of like
the statistic that most accidents happen
within a mile of your home perhaps
people act more carelessly when they're
approaching a safe harbor well that and
the weather can get nasty near the coast
there's roughly sixty billion dollars
worth of sunken treasure all over the
world excavating these sites brings in a
ton of historical value to still about
90% of the seafloor is mostly unexplored
that's why the ocean Discovery XPrize
formerly a space exploration
organization is offering seven million
dollars to groups that will build
autonomous underwater vehicles and make
maps of the ocean floor
hmm looks like you and me have some
deep-sea treasure hunting to do Brite
cider what do you say you in hey if you
learn something new today then give the
video a like and share it with a friend
and here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]